# Text Mining- Fake News Detection
 
News media has become an important source to pass on the information about everything that is happening in the world to the people. However, the authenticity of this information has become a longstanding issue affecting businesses and society, both for printed and digital media. The media has often been notorious for sensationalizing inaccurate news to retain the attention of public. Often people perceive whatever conveyed in the news to be true. With the reach of the media far enough and effects of the information being spread at a fast pace, such distorted and false information has the potential to cause adverse impacts on the world and its peace. Some news has significant impact on the economy. Such news can bring the economy down and affect the livelihoods of millions of people. To overcome the problem of fake news, we can use one of the most common tasks of Natural Language Processing. Text Classification, also known as text tagging or text categorization is the process of categorizing text into organized groups. Text classifiers can automatically assign a set of pre-defined tags or categories after analyzing its content. The purpose of this project is to detect fake news from the Kaggle dataset using pre trained BERT model, one of the most popular transformer models and bidirectional LSTM which belongs to a larger category of neural networks called Recurrent Neural Network (RNN). Through the evaluation of the two models, we find that BERT model performs impressively well and better than Bi-LSTM.
